README.md, before:

# Signature Commons Schema

JSON-Schema validators for signature commons entities. Designed to allow one to flexibly validate arbitrary metadata in the signature commons database.

## Introduction
At the most basic level, a given instance should reference the validation context which it implements.

Given an abstract concept, we can write a validator for it:
```json
{
  "$id": "myimportantconcept.json",
  "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft-04/schema#",
  "description": "My important concept",
  "allOf": [
    {
      "$ref": "core/meta.json"
    },
    {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "my_important_field": {
          "type": "string",
          "description": "My important description"
        }
      },
      "required": [
        "my_important_field"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

Meta here enforces the constraint of the `@context` definition, which references the abstract validation. Now we can write any number of instances for our concept.
```json
{
  "@context": "myimportantconcept.json",
  "my_important_field": "my_important_value"
}
```

We can validate that this is true by grabbing the `@context` file and validating the json itself.
```python
validate(
  data=data,
  schema=fetch(data['@context'])
)
```

The `@context` here is therefore doubling as semantic meaning, as described in the descriptions, and computational validation. Better yet, this allows us to support self-described objects, which is how we can deal with arbitrary metadata.

```json
{
  "@context": "core/signature.json",
  "meta": {
    "@context": "meta/signature/gene.json",
    ...all the gene signature relevant metadata
  },
  "values": {
    "entity": "id",
    "value": "val"
  }
}
```

`meta/signature/gene.json` then is capable of defining the specifics of the metadata implementation, potentially as a subset of other metadata.

```json
{
  "$id": "meta/signature/gene.json",
  "allOf": [
    {
      "$ref": "meta/signature/common.json"
    },
    {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        ...gene specific signature properties
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

This repository has examples and tests which should be re-used to validate that APIs and Databases as part of the signature commons are serving and consuming data which follows this same approach. The actual schemas can be stored and referenced from this repository as they are public, persistent, and versioned.

### Project Layout
- `core/`: Fundamental schemas which define how the schemas should even be used
  - `meta.json`: JSON-LD style constraints
  - `library.json`, `signature.json`, `entity.json`: Primary signature common primitives, they expose `meta` as an instance of `meta.json`
  - `examples.json`: Schema example tests structure
- `examples/`: Valid and invalid examples of schema structures for testing
- `meta/`: Meta schemas designed for the respective primary signature common primitive meta fields.
- `tests/`: nosetests-driven python tests for validating the schemas and examples

## Development

### Setup
Install python dependencies with `pip install -r requirements.txt`.

### Testing
Run tests with `nosetests`.

Commit message:

Extended README to include python installation and usage directions

README.md, after:

# Signature Commons Schema

JSON-Schema validators for signature commons entities. Designed to allow one to flexibly validate arbitrary metadata in the signature commons database.

## Usage
You can install the validators for this with pip.
```bash
pip install https://github.com/dcic/signature-commons-schema/archive/master.zip
```

Once installed, it can be used like so:
```python
from signature_commons_validator import deep_validation

deep_validation({
  '@context': 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dcic/signature-commons-schema/master/core/library.json',
  'id': 'library_id',
  'meta': {
    '@context': 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dcic/signature-commons-schema/master/meta/library/draft-1.json',
    'Assay': 'RNA-seq',
    ...
  },
  ...
})
```

This will perform assertions to ensure `@context` is being respected properly, reporting any discrepencies.

## Introduction
At the most basic level, a given instance should reference the validation context which it implements.

Given an abstract concept, we can write a validator for it:
```json
{
  "$id": "myimportantconcept.json",
  "$schema": "http://json-schema.org/draft-04/schema#",
  "description": "My important concept",
  "allOf": [
    {
      "$ref": "core/meta.json"
    },
    {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "my_important_field": {
          "type": "string",
          "description": "My important description"
        }
      },
      "required": [
        "my_important_field"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

Meta here enforces the constraint of the `@context` definition, which references the abstract validation. Now we can write any number of instances for our concept.
```json
{
  "@context": "myimportantconcept.json",
  "my_important_field": "my_important_value"
}
```

We can validate that this is true by grabbing the `@context` file and validating the json itself.
```python
validate(
  data=data,
  schema=fetch(data['@context'])
)
```

The `@context` here is therefore doubling as semantic meaning, as described in the descriptions, and computational validation. Better yet, this allows us to support self-described objects, which is how we can deal with arbitrary metadata.

```json
{
  "@context": "core/signature.json",
  "meta": {
    "@context": "meta/signature/gene.json",
    ...all the gene signature relevant metadata
  },
  "values": {
    "entity": "id",
    "value": "val"
  }
}
```

`meta/signature/gene.json` then is capable of defining the specifics of the metadata implementation, potentially as a subset of other metadata.

```json
{
  "$id": "meta/signature/gene.json",
  "allOf": [
    {
      "$ref": "meta/signature/common.json"
    },
    {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        ...gene specific signature properties
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

This repository has examples and tests which should be re-used to validate that APIs and Databases as part of the signature commons are serving and consuming data which follows this same approach. The actual schemas can be stored and referenced from this repository as they are public, persistent, and versioned.

### Project Layout
- `core/`: Fundamental schemas which define how the schemas should even be used
  - `meta.json`: JSON-LD style constraints
  - `library.json`, `signature.json`, `entity.json`: Primary signature common primitives, they expose `meta` as an instance of `meta.json`
  - `examples.json`: Schema example tests structure
- `examples/`: Valid and invalid examples of schema structures for testing
- `meta/`: Meta schemas designed for the respective primary signature common primitive meta fields.
- `tests/`: nosetests-driven python tests for validating the schemas and examples

## Development

### Setup
Install python dependencies with `pip install -r requirements.txt`.

### Testing
Run tests with `nosetests`.
